# Common lisp profiling library : Documentation
===============================================

Clpl (common lisp profilin library) aims to make profiling easier by offering
two main tools : Scheduling and Output control. Currently it only works for
Sbcl, but I'll consider integrating profiling to the package later.

## Installation
===============

The easiest way to install Clpl is to use ASDF. To load the package just do :
`(require :asdf)
(asdf:load-system :fr-clpl)`

## Scheduling
=============

The first part of Clpl is the scheduling. To schedule some tests, just use the
function define-bench :

`(define-bench name function number args)`

* Name is a symbol that is used to store the bench. Later it may be used in the
output part.
* Function is a function symbol.
* Number is the number of execution per args
* Args is a list of arguments list

Let's look at an example to make it clearer :
`
(define-bench 'my-bench 'format 42
    '((t "first print")
      (t "another print")))
      `
In this example, the first argument (t "first print") will be executed 42 times, and then the second. It returns a time-info-list that is used in the output part.

To run the benches, you only have to call run-bench :
`(run-bench &rest bench-list)`

If bench names are provided, then only those will be executed, here is an example :
`(run-bench my-bench)`

## Controling the output
========================

The output is controlled by the function print-table. It allows the user to
specify a time-info-list (obtained from run-bench), and a format to print the
table. In this way, the output is fully customizable. We can have a nice ascII
table, or a LaTeX output. Here is the prototype :

`(print-table output arg-list time-info-list key (padding t) (head t)
    (linesep #\-) (overhead t))`

The output refers to an output stream, it can either be something like
`*trace-output*` or a file stream.
Arg-list is a liste made of slots and string, string acting as separators. Here
is an example (name and gc are slots from the time-info object) :
`("| " 'name " | " 'gc " |")`

time-info-list is a list of results of type time-info-class. Each element of
the list will be printed as a line.
Padding (default t) is an option that makes the cells of a column of an equal
width.
Head (default t) prints the slots name in the first line of the table.
Linesep (default `#\-`) is the line separator of the printed table. It is
either a character or nil (if nil, line separators will not be printed)
Overhead (default t) prints the overhead of the profiling, after the table.

Print-table supports inheritance, in a soon future, I'll hope to create
automatically function for the inheriting classes (such as conversion
function), and improve the definition of inheriting classes.
